\section{Background}%
\label{sec:background}

Secure enclaves can take many shapes and offer various security properties, but
in this work we only require the following three.  In the rest of this section,
we provide background on how Nitro Enclaves achieve the above three security
properties.

\noindent \textbf{Confidentiality:} An unauthorized entity (e.g., the host
operating system) must not be able to observe the data that an enclave is
processing.

\noindent \textbf{Integrity:} An unauthorized entity must not be able to modify
the data that the enclave is processing, or the code that it is running.

\noindent \textbf{Verifiability:} Any entity (e.g., a user) must be able to
verify if the enclave is running the code that its operator claims it is
running.

\subsection{The AWS Nitro system}%
\label{sec:nitro}

Nitro Enclaves are virtual machines that run on dedicated hardware that is not
shared with an enclave's EC2 host.  The technology that enforces isolation
between the enclave and its EC2 host also enforces isolation between any two
given EC2 instances: the Nitro system.  Before covering enclaves, we explain how
the Nitro system works---first by discussing its three key components.

\textbf{Nitro cards}: While physically connected to a server's main board via
PCIe, Nitro cards are dedicated and custom-built hardware and software that runs
independently of a server's main board.  Nitro cards implement the interfaces
that allow for the management of a server's computational, memory, and storage
needs, among other things.  A Nitro card also provides a server's hardware root
of trust and is responsible for firmware updates, secure boot, and acts as an
interface between the server and the EC2 control plane~\cite[pp.
7--10]{Bean2022a}.

\textbf{Nitro security chip}: The Nitro card acts independently of the system main
board.  The purpose of the Nitro security chip, which is controlled by the Nitro
card, is to extend the Nitro card's control over the system main board.  One of
the chip's responsibilities is to prevent the CPU from updating the system's
firmware when run in bare metal mode~\cite[pp.~10--11]{Bean2022a}.

\textbf{Nitro hypervisor}:
The hypervisor is a firmware-like component that receives commands from the
Nitro card.  The hypervisor is stripped of any non-essential code: it does not
contain networking code, file systems, shells, or other utilities that would
allow a successful attacker to access other
infrastructure~\cite[pp.~11--12]{Bean2022a}.

Other design decisions are meant to provide defense in depth.  First, by
design, the Nitro system has no operator access, i.e., operators are unable to
log in to an EC2 Nitro system and inspect memory or access customer
data~\cite[p.~15]{Bean2022a}. Second, the Nitro system is designed to
communicate passively, i.e., system components never initiate outgoing
connections during production operations.

Of particular interest is how the Nitro system aims to prevent side channel
attacks: customer instances never share a given CPU core in parallel.  If two
customers use a CPU core sequentially, the hypervisor ensures that state is
cleared in between use.  Depending on the instance, cores may be exclusively
allocated to a customer, which includes Nitro Enclaves.  This means that L1 and
L2 caches are also never shared.  Last-level cache lines may be shared but only
non-simultaneously.  Amazon's documentation further
states~\cite[p.~19]{Bean2022a}:

\begin{quote}
By virtue of its function, only relatively infrequently accessed data is
referenced in last-level cache lines.  Side-channels typically require a very
large and statistically relevant number of samples in order to over-come the
noise present in systems.
\end{quote}

\subsection{Nitro Enclaves}%
\label{sec:nitro-enclaves}

Nitro Enclaves inherit the isolation and security properties of the Nitro
system.  When an EC2 host system launches a Nitro Enclave, it ``sacrifices'' at
least one of its CPUs and some of its memory pages to the enclave.  These
resources are subsequently unavailable to the EC2 host and exclusively used by
the enclave.  The same isolation mechanism that protects individual customer EC2
instances from each other also protects the Nitro Enclave from its host.

\begin{figure}[t]
  \centering
  \input{sections/figures/dev-workflow}
  \caption{The development workflow for compiling enclave applications.}%
  \label{fig:dev-workflow}
\end{figure}

On the software level, Nitro Enclaves are virtual machines.  They have their own
Linux kernel that is independent from the host.  Customers can create enclave
images from a Docker image that contains the enclave application.  Amazon
provides a command line tool, nitro-cli~\cite{nitro-cli}, which compiles a
Docker image into an enclave image file (EIF).  Figure~\ref{fig:dev-workflow}
illustrates the process.  After compilation, nitro-cli prints a number of
platform configuration registers (PCRs) that contain SHA-384 hashes over
different layers of the enclave image file.  Table~\ref{tab:pcr} shows the six
available PCRs.  PCR0 is of particular importance for remote attestation as we
will explain later.

\begin{table}[t]
    \centering
    \begin{tabular}{r l}
    \toprule
      PCR \# & SHA-384 hash of\ldots \\
    \midrule
      0 & Enclave image file \\
      1 & Linux kernel \\
      2 & Application \\
      3 & IAM role assigned to the host instance \\
      4 & Instance ID of the host instance \\
      8 & Enclave image file signing certificate \\
    \bottomrule
    \end{tabular}
    \caption{The available platform configuration registers (PCRs) and the
    meaning behind them.}%
    \label{tab:pcr}
\end{table}

By design, Nitro Enclaves have very limited abilities to communicate with the
outside world.  Lacking a dedicated networking interface, Nitro Enclaves can
only communicate with their EC2 host via a VSOCK interface~\cite{vsock}.
Originally proposed for communication between a hypervisor and its virtual
machines, AWS repurposed the VSOCK interface to serve as communication channel
between an enclave and its parent EC2 instance.  From a developer's point of
view, the VSOCK interface is a point-to-point interface connecting the two.  On
the network layer, 32-bit context IDs take the role of IP addresses in VSOCK
interfaces.  For example, the enclave may have context ID 4 while its parent EC2
instance may have context ID 3.  On the transport layer, one can use the same
protocols that one would use over the IP-based address family; namely TCP, UDP,
et cetera.
